---
layout: post
title: Week 1 
---

## Intro

### Why learn open source?
When I hear the term **"open source"** software development (OSSD), I think about shared ownership through open collaboration between developers through freely-accessible licensed software via code/non-code contributions. Tons of revolutionary software have been created as a result of them being open source such as Linux, React, Git, and many more. As opposed to "closed source" software development, open source allows for meaningful and diverse contributions by any person, regardless of their background or affiliation, that can help the software grow rapidly and expansively. Open source also allows for transparency in how the software is built which instills trust among its contributors.

However, with open source, there are potential challenges with it such as sparse or outdated documentation, uneven communication, and lack of formal support which will make contributing more difficult. My motivation in choosing to register for this OSSD course is because I see it as one of the most practical ways to gain experience with production-level codebases outside of a traditional job setting. My past internships taught me that writing code is only half the job, the other half is reading existing code, understanding design decisions, and making changes that are clear and maintainable. Open source offers a space to deliberately practice these skills while learning best practices for collaboration. I'm also hoping to apply for the Google Summer of Code program and want to know what goes into a proposal and how to evaluate projects I'm potentially interested in. 

### Open source projects I've regularly used:
- [React](https://github.com/facebook/react): I've built multiple fullstack/frontend projects using React. It fundamentally changed how I approached web development by pushing me to think of interfaces as composable building blocks rather than static pages.

- [p5.js](https://github.com/processing/p5.js): I'm learning to use this now for creative coding projects as I'm interested in the intersection between tech and design. It’s helping me think of code not just as a tool for functionality, but also as a medium for creativity.

- [OpenCV](https://github.com/opencv/opencv): I've used it for computer vision purposes when building apps. 

- [VSCode](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode): Practically use this every day for my coding activities. Has really useful extensions, syntax highlighting, debugging features, and many more. It's a highly customizable environment.