---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## Interacting with Open Source Communities

When it comes to collaborating, you'd expect your teammates to have common sense and to act professionally in communication. However, in open source, when those teammates are unknown to you, who may even be across the world from you, their perspective on "good behavior" may be different from you. In open source, there is a need to lay out these "ground rules" to protect each other from harm and to ensure the contributions align with the project goals. As a group, my friends and I discussed the benefits of having such a document for a project by first looking at [Go's Code of Conduct](https://golang.org/conduct) document.

Some things we talked about were that this kind of document allows for the project values to be established explicitly and clearly, ensuring alignment across project contributors and owners. It establishes clear guidelines for people who may have not been in this kind of setting who may need some guidance on how to interact with others, even if it may be common sense (sometimes, common sense isn't common), and to know what procedures are in place to carry out certain actions, for example, who to report harassment to and how to be considerate when contributing. In regards to other non-open source projects, this kind of document can still be beneficial to lay out guidelines about the culture, the expectations, and the goals of a project to ensure contributors understand what they need to do, how they should be doing it, and if this project is right for them.

We also read through the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct) site which the Go document adapted from. Two major differences between Go and this website were that Go specified their Gopher Values at the top to indicate the values they have for the Go community and Go also addressed how conflicts should be resolved, either directly between individuals, or escalating them to the Go Project Stewards. Go might have made those changes to ensure alignment and upholding of values within the community and to provide steps contributors can take to resolve conflicts safely and respectably as conflicts may result in harmful situations. Another project that adapted from the Contributor Covenant site is Eclipse, here's the [document](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php). Eclipse has a different structure and content than Go whereby Eclipse dives deeper into code violations and lays out the processes for investigations, responding to retaliations, and seeking reconsideration, indicating that they may pay more attention to these situations.

Another code of conduct we read was for [Sugar Labs](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct). This document is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct instead. It is quite different in structure and content compared to the Go project whereby it doesn't have a specific conflict escalation path and is very dependent on users figuring it out for themselves. Additionally, it places emphasis on specific code contribution examples and how one should handle themselves in specific scenarios such as leaving a project, consulting others, and contributing during feature freezes, whereas Go doesn't.

We also read through the [iNaturalist Code of Conduct](https://www.inaturalist.org/pages/community+guidelines). This is different from Go and Sugar Labs whereby it very specifically lists out acceptable and suspendable actions when contributing in the community. It was probably due to the nature of iNaturalist where it had to list out things like posting dead animals or human remains. Additionally, iNaturalist took the extra step to seek out extensive input from the community when forming the code of conduct. Overall, it was interesting getting a taste of what open source communities expect from their contributors and what conflicts may arise while contributing.

To learn more about interacting within open source communities, [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZYwTDNA3Uac) on How to Drive Consensus & Transparency in OpenSource Communities by Jill Lovato & Trishan de Lanerolle helped expose me to the challenges and strategies that project contributors and leaders can take on. It taught me that communicating in open source communities is really about hearing diverse voices and opinions while still driving the project forward through focus on the "North Star", the main goal of the project, while embracing different ways to reach it. The video offers several soft skills to leverage when communicating such as, inclusivity, seeking consensus, finding compromise, being flexible, empathetic, and agile. Understanding things like different time zones, knowing your lanes and responsibilities, actively listening, breaking down decision making problems, and staying open to new approaches will be beneficial when it comes to any kind of group work / projects.

